---
title: Working with Kubernetes
---

# Kubernetes Objects

One of the core concepts of Kubernetes is providing a lot of mostly abstract resources, also called objects, that you can use to describe how your workload should be handled. Some of them are used to handle problems of container orchestration, like scheduling and self-healing, others are there to solve some inherent problems of containers.

Kubernetes objects can be distinguished between workload-oriented objects that are used for handling container workloads and infrastructure-oriented objects, that for example handle configuration, networking and security. Some of these objects can be put into a namespace, while others are available across the whole cluster.

As a user, we can describe these objects in the popular data-serialization language YAML and send them to the api-server, where they get validated before they are created.

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1  
kind: Deployment  
metadata:  
  name: nginx-deployment  
spec:
  selector:  
    matchLabels:  
      app: nginx  
  replicas: 2 # tells deployment to run 2 pods matching the template  
  template:  
    metadata:  
      labels:  
        app: nginx  
    spec:  
      containers:  
      - name: nginx  
        image: nginx:1.19  
        ports:  
        - containerPort: 80
```

**The fields highlighted in red are required fields. They include:**

-   **apiVersion**  
> Each object can be versioned. That means the data structure of the object can change between different versions.
-   **kind**  
> The kind of object that should be created.
-   **metadata**  
> Data that can be used to identify it. A **name** is required for each object and must be unique. You can use namespaces if you need multiple objects with the same name.
-   **spec**  
> The specification of the object. Here you can describe your desired state. Be cautious, since the structure for the object can change with its version!

Creating, modifying or deleting an object is only a record of intent where you describe the state your objects should be in, you’re not actively starting pods or even containers for that matter like you would do on your local machine and get direct feedback if it worked or not.