# Use of Containers

The history of application development is also the history of packaging these applications for different platforms and operating systems.

Let’s take a simple web application written in the popular programming language Python as an example. To run an application on a server or your local machine, the system usually needs to fulfill specific requirements like:

-   Install and configure the basic operating system
-   Install the core Python packages to run the program
-   Install Python extensions that your program uses
-   Configure networking for your system
-   Connect to third party systems like a database, cache or storage.

While the developer knows his application and its dependencies best, it is usually a system administrator who provides the infrastructure, installs all of the dependencies, and configures the system on which the application runs. This process can be very error-prone and hard to maintain, so servers are only configured for a single purpose like running a database or an application server and then get connected by network.

To get more efficient use out of the server hardware, virtual machines can be used to emulate a full server with cpu, memory, storage, networking, operating system and the software on top. This allows running multiple isolated servers on the same hardware.

Before the widespread adoption of containers, server virtualization was the most efficient way of running applications isolated and easy to handle, but since you have to run a whole operating system including the kernel, it always comes with some overhead if you need to run a lot of servers.

Containers can be used to solve both of these problems, managing the dependencies of an application and running much more efficiently than spinning up a lot of virtual machines.