# Service Discovery & DNS

For a long time, server management in traditional data centers was manageable. Many system administrators even remembered all of the IP addresses of important systems they had to work with. Large lists of servers, their host names, IP addresses, and purposes - all maintained manually - were daily business.

In container orchestration platforms things are a lot more complicated:

-   Hundreds or thousands of containers with individual IP addresses
-   Containers are deployed on varieties of different hosts, different data centers or even geolocations
-   Containers or Services need DNS to communicate. Using IP addresses is nearly impossible
-   Information about Containers must be removed from the system when they get deleted.

The solution to the problem again is automation. Instead of having a manually maintained list of servers (or in this case containers), all the information is put in a _Service Registry_. Finding other services in the network and requesting information about them is called _Service Discovery_.

### Approaches to Service Discovery
- **DNS**
	Modern DNS servers that have a service API can be used to register new services as they are created. This approach is pretty straightforward, as most organizations already have DNS servers with the appropriate capabilities.

- **Key-Value-Store**
	Using a strongly consistent datastore especially to store information about services. A lot of systems are able to operate highly available with strong failover mechanisms. Popular choices, especially for clustering, are [etcd](https://github.com/coreos/etcd/), [Consul](https://www.consul.io/) or [Apache Zookeeper](https://zookeeper.apache.org/).