---
title: Kubernetes Fundametals
---

# 04 KUBERNETES FUNDAMENTALS

Kubernetes is a highly popular open-source container orchestration platform that can be used to automate deployment, scaling and the management of containerized workloads. In this chapter, we will discover the basic architecture of a Kubernetes cluster and its components. To learn even more Kubernetes basics, you can take the Linux Foundation's free [Introduction to Kubernetes (LFS158x)](https://training.linuxfoundation.org/training/introduction-to-kubernetes/) course on edX.

Originally designed and developed by Google, Kubernetes got open-sourced in 2014, and along the release v1.0 Kubernetes was donated to the newly formed Cloud Native Computing Foundation as the very first project. A lot of cloud native technologies evolve around Kubernetes, be it low-level tools like container runtimes, monitoring or application delivery tools.

Professionals with Kubernetes skills, be it administration or developing, are highly sought after since Kubernetes has become the centerpiece of a lot of modern cloud platforms.

<!--
**Index**

1. [Introduction](4_1.md)
2. [Kubernetes Architecture](4_2.md)
3. [Kebernetes Setup](4_3.md)
4. [Kubernetes API](4_4.md)
5. [Running Containers on Kubernetes](4_5.md)
6. [Networking](4_6.md)
7. [Scheduling](4_7.md)
8. [Additional Resources](4_8.md)
-->

**Learning Objectives**

By the end of this chapter, you should be able to:

-   Discuss the basic architecture of Kubernetes. 
-   Explain the different components of control plane and worker nodes. 
-   Understand how to get started with the Kubernetes setup. 
-   Discuss how Kubernetes is running containers. 
-   Discuss the scheduling concepts of Kubernetes.