# Scheduling

In its most basic form, scheduling is a sub-category of container orchestration and describes the process of automatically choosing the right (worker) node to run a containerized workload on. In the past, scheduling was more of a manual task where a system administrator would choose the right server for an application by keeping track of the available servers, their capacity and other properties like where they are located.

In a Kubernetes cluster, the kube-scheduler is the component that makes the scheduling decision, but is not responsible for actually starting the workload. The scheduling process in Kubernetes always starts when a new Pod object is created. Remember that Kubernetes is using a declarative approach, where the Pod is only described first, then the scheduler selects a node where the Pod actually will get started by the kubelet and the container runtime.

A common misconception about Kubernetes is that it has some form of "artificial intelligence" analyzing the workload and moving Pods around based on resource consumption, type of workload and other factors. The truth is that a user has to give information about the application requirements, including requests for CPU and memory and properties of a node. For example, a user could request that their application requires two CPU cores, four gigabytes of memory and should preferably be scheduled on a node with fast disks.

The scheduler will use that information to filter all nodes that fit these requirements. If multiple nodes fit the requirements equally, Kubernetes will schedule the Pod on the node with the least amount of Pods. This is also the default behavior if a user has not specified any further requirements.

It is possible that the desired state cannot be established, for example, because worker nodes do not have sufficient resources to run your application. In this case, the scheduler will retry to find an appropriate node until the state can be established.